review interlock (#3)
trapier/docker.github.io: ee/ucp/interlock/index.md

---
title: Layer 7 routing overview
description: Learn how to route layer 7 traffic to your Swarm services
keywords: routing, UCP, interlock, load balancing
---

> Application-layer (Layer 7) routing is the application routing and load balancing (ingress routing) system included with Docker Enterprise for Swarm orchestration. Interlock architecture takes advantage of the underlying Swarm components to provide scalable Layer 7 routing and Layer 4 VIP mode functionality.

Author: ```suggestion
Layer 7 routing is the ingress application routing and load balancing system included with Docker Enterprise for Swarm orchestration. Interlock architecture takes advantage of the underlying Swarm to provide scalable layer 7 routing for Swarm services.
```

- remove parenthetical stutters
- take the application-layer marbles out of your mouth
- remove reference to layer 4.  this is about layer 7, right?
- tolower Layer for consistency with subsequent use

Author: please dear deity introduce interlock before you start talking about its architecture.

Interlock is specific to the Swarm orchestrator. If you're trying to route
traffic to your Kubernetes applications, check
[layer 7 routing with Kubernetes.](../kubernetes/layer-7-routing.md)

> Interlock uses the Docker Remote API to automatically configure extensions such as NGINX or HAProxy for application traffic. Interlock is designed for:

Author: ```suggestion
Interlock uses the Docker Remote API to automatically configure NGINX for application traffic. Interlock is designed for:
```

- remove reference to HAproxy.

> - Full integration with Docker (Swarm, Services, Secrets, Configs)

Author: ```suggestion
- Full integration with Docker Swarm (Services, Networks, Secrets, Configs)
```
- scope Docker to Swarm
- note integration with  networks

- Enhanced configuration (context roots, TLS, zero downtime deploy, rollback)

> - Support for external load balancers (nginx, haproxy, F5, etc) via extensions

Author: ```suggestion
 - Support for external load balancers (NGINX, HAProxy, F5, etc) via extensions \*
```
- capitalization
- caveat NGINX is the only implemented extension

> - Least privilege for extensions (no Docker API access)

Author: ```suggestion
- Least privilege for extensions (no Docker API access)
\* NGINX is currently the only released and supported extension.
```

- add caveat on supported extensions

Interlock is specific to the Swarm orchestrator. If you're trying to route traffic to your Kubernetes applications, check [layer 7 routing with Kubernetes.](../kubernetes/layer-7-routing.md)

Interlock uses the Docker Remote API to automatically configure extensions such as NGINX or HAProxy for application traffic. Interlock is designed for:

- Full integration with Docker (Swarm, Services, Secrets, Configs)
- Enhanced configuration (context roots, TLS, zero downtime deploy, rollback)
- Support for external load balancers (nginx, haproxy, F5, etc) via extensions
- Least privilege for extensions (no Docker API access)

Docker Engine running in swarm mode has a routing mesh, which makes it easy to expose your services to the outside world. Since all nodes participate in the routing mesh, users can access a service by contacting any node.  

![swarm routing mess](../images/interlock-overview-1.svg)

> For example, a WordPress service is listening on port 8000 of the routing mesh. Even though the service is running on a single node, users can access WordPress using the domain name or IP of any of the nodes that are part of the swarm.

Author: ```suggestion
For example, a WordPress service is published to port 8000 of the ingress routing mesh. Even though the service is only running on a single node, users can access WordPress by connecting the to domain name or IP of any node in the cluster on port 8000.  
```

- _ingress_ routing mesh
- fix capitalization of swarm by not using it
- use the word `port` multiple times to subtly indicate routing mesh is layer 4.

Author: Explicitly reference *layer 4* for extension by layer 7 in the next paragraph?

> UCP extends this one step further with layer 7 layer routing (also known as application layer 7), allowing users to access Docker services using domain names instead of IP addresses. This functionality is made available through the Interlock component.

Author: ```suggestion
UCP extends this one step further with layer 7 layer routing, allowing users to access Docker services using domain names instead of port numbers. This functionality is made available through the Interlock component.
```

-  drop the parenthetical
-  correct the contrast reference to port number (i.e. layer 4)
